Technothriller Kaiju

"Main Power is failing! Mobility is down!"
"Of course Main Power is failing, the Sixxer just punched out our fucking
reactor! Bring up whatever reserves we have left!"

My co-pilot, Lt. Holmes, is a rookie. I mean, she's seen combat before, survived
some pretty harsh shit in Afghanistan and did two tours during the liberation of
North Korea, but all of that means dick when you get in the cockpit of a Frame.
Today was supposed to be a training exercise, a bit of recon and maybe a light
skirmish on the edge of the hot zone, something easy to get a feel for how the
Frame handles.  Instead, we ran into a fucking Class Six, a behemoth this light
training Frame really has no business tackling.

"We're fucking dead out here!" she yells. I can hear the terror in her voice,
see her shaking in my peripheral vision. All that time in the training sim goes
out the window when you're being charged by 24 storeys of rampaging nightmare.

"Holmes! What's still working?" I shout. I really don't need to ask - my console
gives me all the same info hers does, but I figure getting her to focus on
something will calm those shakes.

"Ummm... 4 backup batteries are still good... joint motivators are down but...".

I let her keep rattling off the systems, throwing out the occasional "uh huh"
or "yup" so she thinks I'm listening. I'm not really in the conversation though,
I'm bringing what's left of the Frame to bear against the Sixxer.  There's not
much left - a few batteries, the missile pods, and... the fucking parking gear.
There's a set of wheels and treads on the bottom of the Frame's feet, designed
for slow movement and delicate positioning. In combat, a Frame walks- or runs-
upright, but the knee and hip joints need reactor power to move all that steel.
Right now the parking gear is our only means of movement, so we're basically
a stationary object.

"...and we've still full use of the right arm" she finishes.

"How long until Tango and Sawtooth get here?" We called for reinforcements as
soon as we saw the Sixxer, and two heavy combat Frames were dispatched - but
they were a good 20 miles out last I checked.

"No idea sir, Comms are down."
"Well shi..."
"SIR!" Holmes is pointing forward frantically. Apparently the Sixxer decided
that disabling our Frame wasn't enough, and it was charging in to finish the
job.

"Missiles NOW!" I shout.  Neither Holmes or I need to input any command for this
one - the Frame's digital persona picks up the urgent vocal command and
unleashes the salvo.  It's not advanced enough to pilot the Frame itself, but
there's a whole slew of "panic commands" it can respond to.  The Frame rocks
back as the barrage of missiles lets loose, and I'm worried that we'll topple
over backwards.  Fuck, even if we survived that the embarrassment would kill me.

Holmes feels the wobble too and throws the parking gear into reverse,
accelerating into the lean until we're upright then backing off.  It's a subtle
dance, balancing 60 meters of broken mecha on the maneuvering system only, but
she pulls it off perfectly - maybe she's not so panicked after all.  She
accelerates the left foot and releases braking system on the left knee - the
joint still has no power, but with the emergency brake off it starts to pivot
under the weight of the Frame.  Holmes eases the brake back on and brings us to
a rest in a much more stable kneeling position.

The missiles hit their target, blasting a smoking crater in the Six's right
shoulder.  The behemoth roars in pain and anger; even in the noise-cancelling
cockpit of the Frame, it sounds how I figure being hit by a train feels.
There's a pressure, like my head wants to converge into a singularity, but only
for an instant, ended by an earthquake-like rumbling as the beast hits the
ground.  It's not dead, not even disabled, not by a longshot - but we've got a
moment of respite while it shakes off the hit.  Of course, if it wasn't intent
on killing us before, we just changed its mind.

"Holmes, you ok?"

"What. The. FUCK?" she screams. She's clutching at her head, looking a little
dazed.

"Holmes, just breathe. Pretend you're chewing gum, it'll relieve the pressure."

"Seriously sir, what the fuck?"

"Haven't heard them roar before huh? Takes some getting used to. Doesn't help
that half our soundproofing was sheered off - the Noise Cancellation system can
only do so much."

"I've heard recordings but... they don't do that. They don't tell you it'll
feel like an elephant dancing on your temple."  Her voice is laced with pain.

"Yeah, we didn't expect to find anything over Class 3 today. You should have had
a few run-ins with smaller beasts to build up a tolerance first.  You ok?"

"I'll live, sir.  Thanks."

I look out the cockpit; the Sixxer is struggling to get back up on all fours.
The wound is already clotting over and its starting to find some footing, but
its right forelimb isn't taking the weight well.  We've got a minute until it
recovers, two if we're lucky.
